Cool. Well.
Kevin Kaspar: Hi, everybody. Today we're going to be talking about fundraising, which I know. It's on everybody's mind, like, you know, the 1st day of program. But we're gonna do an in depth presentation. Honestly, about a lot of different topics and fundraising. And this is stuff we'll also be able to cover again and again, and you know it's more just to give you kind of an overview of both
Kevin Kaspar: what the fundraising process looks like like. Who are the key stakeholders. What the timelines look like, you know. What do some of the terms mean, and what how to get prepared? And, you know, really be ready to go out and fundraise when the right when it's the right time for your business. And I think that's something that we're going to continually stress that, you know. You can fundraise when you have to fundraise, when it's the right time, when you have the right traction metrics.
Kevin Kaspar: and when you really have hit those milestones that are going to make you like a business that investors are going to be excited about. And before that it can actually just hurt you if you're, you know, trying to fundraise for a very, very long time without actually focusing on the traction that you need. So
Kevin Kaspar: let's pick it up.
Kevin Kaspar: You want to take the questions. Yeah, it's good idea. Okay, so we have. We have answered probably a lot of these in this presentation. But I do want to take like a poll of the room. So
Kevin Kaspar: you know, would love. If you guys had any kind of high level questions about fundraising and then we can sort of leave them in or kind of get back to them throughout the presentation. Yeah, what questions are you hoping? Get answered with this talk today? Yeah, well, that's 1 from from outside. So
Kevin Kaspar: and we've made that mistake truthfully of like going out a bit too early. Everyone said, you know double the amount of time. But actually, we weren't even ready to be having
Kevin Kaspar: those conversations with institutional investors, but just wanted to get your thoughts on how we should approach
Kevin Kaspar: an angel round versus prec, because I understand it gets a bit commingled at times. But
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, do we? Should we be thinking of them in silos, or should we be so understand? Like they've got different kind of metrics and thresholds of what they think is
Kevin Kaspar: leads and traction. So
Kevin Kaspar: that's really much
Kevin Kaspar: got it?
Kevin Kaspar: Well, what else?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, sort of similarly, trying to define. We're kind of in this space of
Kevin Kaspar: we're raising a precede. But you know.
Kevin Kaspar: do we? Then we see so kind of defining those rounds like, yeah, see, you see, when it's a good transition. And then I think also like,
Kevin Kaspar: question about
Kevin Kaspar: valuations like, you know, does it have to, you know, keep going up? Or is it okay? If, like, you get, you know a term sheet that's a little bit lower, and then again, a little bit higher, like, what are the perceptions of that from a Vc perspective would be great, perfect side note, I really appreciated your little master class email last night to our legal team
Kevin Kaspar: seed on this because I am going to bring me in on their side. But then I was on your side, reached out to Texas legal to get the no cap raise, and they were like, actually, you don't qualify. She was like, actually, I do.
Kevin Kaspar: That'd be great. We'll definitely cover that process is for maximizing all the opportunities, maybe an overview of how that works.
Kevin Kaspar: That's work. Well, yeah. And so that process is
Kevin Kaspar: and also just some real talk about like
Kevin Kaspar: where
Kevin Kaspar: cohorts on landing
Kevin Kaspar: fundrais. Because I I have talked to a lot of the recent cohorts. And and you guys have sort of signaled that
Kevin Kaspar: the world's changed.
Kevin Kaspar: And I think everyone. Yeah, yeah. Money was flying around a few years ago. It's not flying around.
Kevin Kaspar: That's the simple answer. But we'll go deep.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I got you, brother. I was kind of wondering something similar, because I've had conversations with institutional investors who tell me like
Kevin Kaspar: whatever it was like 2 years ago, round up. Yes, that's correct. Yeah, like, revenue expectations are a lot higher now, even for you see, it's like
Kevin Kaspar: what we expect. Right?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, well, yeah, to. And to be clear like. I've always been there. So no class I invest in. Do I set any different expectation. But it was a little bit wild couple of years ago, fully remote Covid money was flying around in a way that I'd never seen before.
Kevin Kaspar: Just one other one for for me. So most of my
Kevin Kaspar: fundraising experiences more on the private equity side, where there's kind of clear timelines of a process. But what we kind of found. It's a lot of investors we were chatting to were keen to sit back and watch and wait for someone to to take the lead, and
Kevin Kaspar: the question is, how do we best
Kevin Kaspar: manage that process and bring it to a to a close like, what's the point in which you say, Okay, time's up. We make a decision.
Kevin Kaspar: I also didn't know whether it was a way of saying like, I will say what we're gonna do. An intro here, led by Sylvia. There's a very special workshop that David Cohen himself runs. Yeah. And he teaches every founder who's ever gone through a techsoars program the exact same thing
Kevin Kaspar: which is like kind of our judo on how to navigate
Kevin Kaspar: securing commitments from investors. There's no one better in the world whoever did this talk than David, so you'll take it from him primarily. But we'll help you with some early hints at it here. Yeah. But that session is going to be your favorite session. That's important to you.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: And I think, just for like earlier stage startups thought process behind. If you need to fundraise, if you don't need it, you don't have to raise.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, one second.
Kevin Kaspar: absolutely. And there's different schools of thought.
Kevin Kaspar: Please remind me if I don't say my piece.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, cause I have a thing to say that you don't hear out here.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, I think I think we should kick off the wall.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Hey? Hi! I I really wonder about the
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: different sub dials in an investment deal like when you propose to, you know, make the like when when we're negotiating a deal there. Apparently there is more than more than just the valuation and the ticket size that you can, you know, increase or decrease to, you know, get someone's attention.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: And I really wonder what we could do with. You know, things like discounts, prorates, or, you know, even the resting schedules like wh, how? What investing schedule we give to the investor will make him or her. Or you know, that person think that you know these guys are actually meaning business. And you know, they like, how do we instill trust in the investor by using these sub instruments like discounts, etc?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, there's a lot of like, almost like legal jargon
Kevin Kaspar: involved with term sheets and stuff that can be really confusing. So definitely cool. Okay, so you guys know, you know, we're gonna we're gonna talk about all this. And like, we will continually answer your questions throughout the cohort, and even afterwards. So you know, there's there's a lot that goes into this.
Kevin Kaspar: So do you want the microphone? Would that be helpful?
Kevin Kaspar: But yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: don't get it working. Yes.
Kevin Kaspar: Second.
Kevin Kaspar: we can start. Okay. Hi, I'm Sylvia. I actually started my career as a founder. So I was on the other side of the table. I built a tech startup in New York with a technical co-founder, and you know we did the whole thing. We went out and tried to raise angels and investors, and I managed
Kevin Kaspar: kind of a small team of devs in addition to trying to. You know, understand what marketing is, and this and that, like I was very early in my career when I did this, and I honestly think it was the most incredible experience of my life, and I really wish I had gone through an accelerator at that point, because I was like, I always said, being a founder is the loneliest job ever, because you're by yourself, and you're also building something that's like
Kevin Kaspar: a new thing, right? So like philosophically, it's like a lonely state to be in. And it's so great to have a cohort who can support you. And honestly, I mean this like, I wish I had joined the tech stars and had been a part of that.
Kevin Kaspar: So I ended up shutting this business down, and I got into the Vc. Side of things because I was very active in in the New York community and I got an opportunity to work at a family office and
Kevin Kaspar: I was a principal there. I did, deals actually across a number of different kind of you know, industries. And we did deals from like 500 K to, you know, maybe 2 million. So we were very kind of, you know, definitely early stage. But we could even do like a series a if we wanted to. So have a lot of experience, kind of evaluating deals on that more kind of
Kevin Kaspar: and a Vc lens which is really heavy on diligence and like analysis. And then I actually invested in some tech stars companies when I was at the fund, and I started to learn so much about how great like it was to be part of an accelerator, and I thought, you know, I've been a founder. It'd be so fun to be able to help and support founders like literally day one or very early in their in their industry. So in the Texas for a couple of years, and I've supported a bunch of companies
Kevin Kaspar: and try to, you know, help out with fundraising investors and all the scratch. Why, tech stars like, why did you decide to work here? What's motivated? Say, like.
Kevin Kaspar: honestly, it's the founders like, I feel like it's just such a, you know, incredible opportunities. So driven with like purpose, too, it's I feel like it's the greatest privilege to be able to work with founders at very early stages. Their journey and iterate on whether it's like customers, or, you know, fundraising rounds, etc. I think it's I just think it's a very like meaningful thing to do. And at the same time. I, you know, get to meet some of the smartest people in the world working on what they're most passionate about.
Kevin Kaspar: And I I think they're very few jobs are better, in my opinion, and you know, Super lucky, but you know, and I guess, lastly, like you've been doing a lot of work in San Francisco now to like build up the community. The network. So like, you're kind of like the throughput for all of us to be connected to the, to the communities already. Right? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I was. I lived in San Francisco last 2 years.
Kevin Kaspar: and I have a pretty big network, and I'm you know, continually growing it of founders and investors. And you know, folks who work at tech companies, etc. and you know, I'm super excited. Like to kind of broke them into you guys in whatever way. That means right. And you know especially, and I know, like it's going to be a process. And we're going to have a fundraising process. But I I would be more than happy to make you know introductions, etc, at that point when you guys are ready. So yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: alright. Let's talk a little bit about the basics of pre seed fundraising. And I'm going to mainly focus on pre-seed fundraising in this in this presentation. So a lot of times seen as like the most kind of formal kind of 1st institutional round. What institutional round means. It's when it's like venture capital firms are coming in. So it's not just friends and family. It's not just individuals, right? Like it's an actual thought. You know, they can range from 700 K to 3 million
Kevin Kaspar: really depends on where you're located depends on what you're building. And you know it. Other types of investors, right? Can include angel investors and family offices, which is where I used to work, and this sort of bridges that gap in between the friends and family round. So you know, the ideal purpose is you're really trying to validate your product market fit with this initial round of capital that you're getting, and you're going to prepare for a larger seed round.
Kevin Kaspar: So essentially like the the typical process is, this will provide 12 to 18 months of runway for your business, and that's how you calculate how much you want to raise. So again back to how important the financial models are and how important that's going to be throughout cohort. Is that building a robust financial model will actually help you understand? You know what number you want to raise? Do you want to raise 700? K, do you want to raise 1.5 million that all stems from
Kevin Kaspar: what kind of runway you need. So and you know, usually you know, at the end of that is when you'll raise it up.
Kevin Kaspar: I will say one thing that I'm seeing here that I would offer caveat based on what George also mentioned is that when we say investments are not looking for revenue, mass attraction, like
Kevin Kaspar: some of them, are looking for revenue. Now more than you. Yeah, that is true. That is definitely true, and like what George said is when everything's getting pushed back and back. What he means is that what the traction you needed, for like a seed deal is now required for a deal. So it is definitely getting more difficult. But on a high level it is very important that you know, you definitely focus on. You know, what makes you great throughout the entire process? Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: no.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah. That'd be great. But I don't expect that anytime soon.
Kevin Kaspar: actually, that that raises a really good question, which is that everyone I thought is like, well, interest rates go down. It's all going to magically change.
Kevin Kaspar: Why are they saying that? Because it's fun to talk about? Yeah, that's pretty much it. Like, I think there's a world of speculation out there. And then there's the real world that we're in this room right now together, and at the end of the day, like.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't want it to be easier for our companies to raise. I don't mind if it's hard, because that means that we have to do the hard thing
Kevin Kaspar: by proving that we have investable companies.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, what's that? Yeah, yeah, it wasn't good. It was like, a lot of money got thrown around and a lot of money got spent, and a lot of companies ended up
Kevin Kaspar: not being valid and going out of business very quickly.
Kevin Kaspar: So yeah, the gaming sector commonly used to this report of the companies that raised and preceding 2,022,
Kevin Kaspar: 1.6 of them raised the series. Yeah, it it was awful. It's awkward because you look at all that money that got spent, and you're like man. If that went to the right opportunities that were real and valid, you could
Kevin Kaspar: had some really phenomenal outcomes. But I think a lot of money got wasted.
Kevin Kaspar: Sorry. No, it's very important, and I think
Kevin Kaspar: you know a big part of how to even calculate your valuation at some point will be around like, what does the market look like, and what are your competitors doing right? So super high level here? Just the key players. We have angel investors. We have a micro. Beasts can be like maybe 9 10 million dollar funds. You know. They they're a great place to to, you know, target your family office, and you have your traditional pre-seed funds. A lot of these are very public with like sector that they have, or whether they focus on the geography, or maybe they focus on
Kevin Kaspar: you know, some sort of you know niche or the GPS have focus in one industry. So average rent size. And then typical valuations say, like one to 10 million.
Kevin Kaspar: And this can definitely change right? But this is what I've seen, too. Yeah, I have. I mean, I think there's always exceptions to any of these things. We're offering up rough ranges. But don't use these as boxes, just signals or indicators. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: okay, so how long does it take? Everyone, you know always asks like, you know, when I decide to launch a pre seed round like, how long is going to take for me? So
Kevin Kaspar: we used to say, 3 to 6 months, but you know now we can even say up to 9 months. So you really need to be prepared for many conversations and rejections along the way. And you know this is really where you should only begin a fundraise when you're really ready and prepared and have that traction that's going to make you shine. That's going to kind of bring in more conversations. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: ready and prepared
Kevin Kaspar: cause. I have thoughts. I'm looking at this neat words. I'm like, okay.
Kevin Kaspar: what might that mean?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. Like knowing what to do with the incoming money like, you have your things. You know what you want to do with the money? Yeah, that's good. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: Being ready to answer any questions. I think about this tech stars application process going through that should mean it's like a version ready for?
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: absolutely.
Kevin Kaspar: Because having your house in order as well. So being able to anticipate knowing the process and knowing, okay, what's gonna happen next after the call
Kevin Kaspar: data room, having
Kevin Kaspar: yeah faqs, and just being able to be on the front for?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: George, I always think of like you build the car on the engine. The money.
Kevin Kaspar: What do you mean by that you have to have?
Kevin Kaspar: I don't think actually like, boost. The money's just that
Kevin Kaspar: initial condition, for I don't know.
Kevin Kaspar: Set properly
Kevin Kaspar: someone yesterday. It's like he was.
Kevin Kaspar: Launch yourself off a cliff. Essentially, I'm going to run with your analogy. What is the purpose of driving a vehicle?
Kevin Kaspar: Where are you going. Hello! That's what I was looking for right there. Sorry, Annie.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, I was just gonna say one thing I really learned was being mentally prepared, because, like the rejections are really intense, and you have to get through the 1st few and also like.
Kevin Kaspar: I think, what I learned
Kevin Kaspar: that there are like for every like, not for every. But you know you'll get rejections. But then you'll also meet people who are really excited, very passionate for you, and just an easy conversation. So just sort of know that you're going to get both into the spectrum. Yes, you're going to get a few of those good ones. The vast majority are going to be. Here's what's wrong with you. And here's why I don't like you, and I don't think you're going to succeed. Yeah, it's it's very difficult.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright, so I've been. I've been fundraising. I I can wallpaper my
Kevin Kaspar: my wall with all the projection letters I've got. So I reached out to a friend of mine, Marcus Siegel. Where you guys don't know who Marcus Siegel is. He was the founding coo of Seeker.
Kevin Kaspar: So he worked for Cso. For like 12 years he's the most badass executive on the planet most sought after. Executive famous Guy started a company, raised money for it, and I said, Oh, please please help me raise money. I keep getting rejections. And he sent me an email back, and he goes because I got 78 rejections where I got my 1st dollar in, he goes. Call me when you get to 79.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, well, that's an interesting 79. That's actually really good. So it's around 150 to 200 to get your first.st Yes, or commit.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I don't know whether this is a big values that are aligned to you, and I think from experience, especially when we were raising too early here. What we found is a lot of people wanted to take polls, which we got excited about. But then we realized that they would just
Kevin Kaspar: lots of people, but you know, just be prepared that they want to take the call with you, but it's not always
Kevin Kaspar: harsh, as that sounds like it's not the good.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, no, there's there's no, it's good. There's definitely different incentives, too.
Kevin Kaspar: Martha and Angelita 1 million in just angel investment.
Kevin Kaspar: So he gave me really good advice, he said. One of the 1st things you should ask any investor is, how many
Kevin Kaspar: deals have they made in the last 12 months, actively investing? Because you don't want to waste your time. You want to be efficient and like, say, like they might just want to keep you like in their contact list for next year or something. So you just want to stop following up with them. Once you hear that they do.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, Liliana, I think you have a question.
Kevin Kaspar: I was just gonna.
Lilliana Robinson: Comment. The question Sylvia and Neil posed was, what does it mean to be prepared to fundraise? And I think every single insight you guys gave is extremely valuable. But it's so interesting that nobody talked about creating a fundable business.
Lilliana Robinson: So I just wanted to point that out. I think we should open our minds to the 1st step before we even think about investors. I I mean, I'm being completely serious. I'm not trying to pwn people. It's just
Lilliana Robinson: opening our minds to. That is really the whole purpose of this workshop. So before we get into the terms before we're thinking about the investors, we want to invest in. And how many knows we're going to get? How do we actually set ourselves up to even start that round, knowing it's going to be successful. And that's really what Sylvia wants to drill in as a point today.
Kevin Kaspar: Well to to reinforce that point. And then, Talika, I want to get your your comment, too. But
Kevin Kaspar: what I would say to clarify. That is conviction that you're actually
Kevin Kaspar: genuinely planning to return the investment.
Kevin Kaspar: So that's another way of saying, I think what Liliana just said. But like, let's just take responsibility here. Think about whatever number is in your bank account that you log into all that money.
Kevin Kaspar: Would you be willing to take a huge chunk of that, if not all of it embed it on someone else.
Kevin Kaspar: And who would that be? And what would be your conditions to get a return on that. So it's a big responsibility. And I think sometimes.
Kevin Kaspar: unfortunately, especially in the Bay area, we don't treat that with the gravity that I think it holds, at least for me personally, which is like putting your own money into someone else and trusting them with it to do what they have to do, and then hopefully offer a mutual return.
Kevin Kaspar: That's that's a deeply like emotional and personal decision.
Kevin Kaspar: So just keep that in mind as you go through this like authentically believe that you plan to actually return the capital and have a successful outcome.
Kevin Kaspar: I think that helps with having a genuine conversation with these early stage investors, especially about it. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: Told us, don't raise when you're like in need and like desperate, because then they'll put you in a weaker position when it comes to like negotiating. You want to come in strong because you have that fundable fundamental business absolutely, literally. That is literally what they're thinking. They're trying to win, you know, that's like they're almost like sales
Kevin Kaspar: that they need to feel like they got this amazing deal, and that if they don't find you, you're gonna you're gonna figure it out, anyway. And they're going to see you all over views. Well, actually, Sylvia, it's funny. That's why the last bullet here, yeah. And I read it. It kind of scared me, because, like on one hand.
Kevin Kaspar: sure fundraise when you have none on the wrong way. Yeah, it almost feels like the wrong way to think about it. Yeah, because it shouldn't be about how much money you have left. It should be about your plan on what you're going to do with the money because you're excited about deploying the capital in a way that is repeatable and scalable. And you're like, I'm onto something I can take a million dollars, and here's what I'm going to do with it in the next year.
Kevin Kaspar: So if you have a a plan to do that that's the time to go talk to investors. Yeah, well, I kind of. I've been around the money soon, so I need you to give me more while I figure out what to do with it definitely, the 9 months is more of a framework given that you have the traction metrics like that's assuming you already are at the traction that you need to be. We'll spend a lot of time talking about traction and just how important it is. But here's some high levels. You need that compelling story. You need to talk about your journey, your motivation and then you need to kind of gather the traction data. And I.
Kevin Kaspar: We'll talk about this later. But there's a lot of ways to describe traction and to display it both on an investor deck and in conversations, even if you're very early, and I think there are different ways to measure it, and different ways that you could, you know, share your progress, even if it's not just Mrr.
Kevin Kaspar: So that's also part of it. And you know, high level right? Get a great team together. If you're looking for a co-founder, you know, really dive into that. If you're not, then, you know, really identify kind of whether there are any gaps in the team. You know.
Kevin Kaspar: So prepare financial projections. We talked about 18 to 24 months. How much you're going to raise and then really do some market research. I mean, this is all what you're doing to prepare for fundraising, to prepare to even build or pitch deck that you're going to send to investors. So definitely think this is stuff that you guys should be thinking about very soon. So
Kevin Kaspar: the type of materials that I usually suggest you preparing as you
Kevin Kaspar: dive into this process would be email drafts. Right? We talked. We've talked about that over the last couple of days like sending formidables. What that would look like, how to draft them building an investor pipeline, having a deck, and then having a having 2 versions of your deck, a long deck, and then a shorter deck as well.
Kevin Kaspar: having sorry to know, having your data room set up, and I'll go through exactly what that means. And then your financial model. And then having a really clean cap table, and I would say that until you're really have all of these done checked
Kevin Kaspar: and confirm that they're in really good shape. I would not go out and raise like I. In my opinion, I think these things need to be very clear, because.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, this can show almost like readiness to be out and talk, to go out and talk to investors and really close around quickly.
Kevin Kaspar: So here's some high level data room example materials. You're gonna have your investor deck. You can put your demo day pitch in here, financial model team Bios, some sort of competition and defensibility analysis.
Kevin Kaspar: You know sales, marketing, customer testimonials. I'll talk about what the due diligence process looks like from a Vc. As well, and how they kind of dive into all these different kind of database materials, you know, some kind of product information and then legal information documents. So again, this is all stuff you have to start thinking about how you're going to build it, how you're gonna you know, build in a presentable way to be able to show investors in the future.
Kevin Kaspar: I wanted to invoke Liliana. She's on the call
Kevin Kaspar: about the data room.
Kevin Kaspar: Maybe we'll bring her back.
Lilliana Robinson: No, I'm I'm here. I'm here. So
Lilliana Robinson: we have developed a curriculum myself and one of our super mentors. Who you may have met during screening committee. Those of you who were there. If you remember Mert Izzri he's a great entrepreneur from Chicago. He and I worked together 2 years ago to create an 8 week curriculum.
Lilliana Robinson: because Neil and I made a personal kpi. So outside of any sort of kpi for tech stars, we made a personal Kpi in 2022. We wanted every single one of our founders that went through our program to finish the program with a finished data room. That's truly one of the steps to having a completely fundable business is all of your ducks are in a row. You understand every aspect of your business, and when someone asks you, you could just easily pull up all of the aspects of your business in a 1 beautiful data room drive.
Lilliana Robinson: so it seems overwhelming, and it is because it's it's your whole business on paper, but we've broken it down into bite size modules that will begin after sf tech week. So in week 6 we'll begin it, and every week you'll have a module to do so that by week 13 you have a completely finished data room to do with whatever you'd like. You can use it to recruit advisors and mentors. You can use it to fundraise. It's completely up to you, but every single one of you is going to graduate with a completed data room.
Lilliana Robinson: Did you want me to say anything else, Neil?
Kevin Kaspar: That's perfect. Let's perfect. Great.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, cap tables.
Kevin Kaspar: This is so important as well. I don't think so.
Kevin Kaspar: My gosh.
Kevin Kaspar: keep going. So
Kevin Kaspar: it's very important that you maintain an up-to-date cap table.
Kevin Kaspar: And there's certain ways and reasons to update your cap table right? And it's Lily on. This is something you cover in when you kind of dig through data rooms and
Kevin Kaspar: how the founders build them.
Lilliana Robinson: This one is not something we cover, but we give resources for it like we have perks with Carta and other things they could use.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: so definitely, as you know, you guys start to think about fundraising. You know, you're going to have a cap table in your data room and investors are really going to double down if there's anything unusual there, or if you have any kind of
Kevin Kaspar: you know, not updated cap tables. And it's very important to make sure it's very clean. And if you do have any questions about your cap table, that is something that the program team can help with. And you know, make sure that it's again like investor ready.
Kevin Kaspar: So this is again very similar to what we were talking about before the precede pitch deck and I love helping founders with a deck support. You know, when they're ready and
Kevin Kaspar: just kind of just again some high level race. All of you have a pitch deck, I'm pretty sure. Read it many, many times as I, you know, evaluated you guys through techstars. So it's continually, it's a live document, right? But these are things you really must have, and not only have, you must know, like off your head. So
Kevin Kaspar: problems. Right? Market, you must have a really good understanding of your market size and populations that defend that. A really strong business model.
Kevin Kaspar: Traction milestones. We'll talk about that more. Understand your team. And to be really specific about how much you're raising again. That's going to stem from your financial projections. So here's some sort of traction and milestones. You know, like slides here. And I I really can't stress enough like traction is the most important thing to, in my opinion, to getting Vc. Fundraising in the sense that if you have like metrics that screen.
Kevin Kaspar: I mean investors are going to talk to you like. They just will take the calls and can you repeat that? I just wanted to make sure everybody heard it. That was really good. You need metrics that scream, that is.
Kevin Kaspar: that is really the basis of what you need. And there's a lot that goes behind that it's not easy, right? Like you need to, you know, really know your customer and have, you know, etc. You have. You have all these processes in place, but that is the fundamental way of fundraising, and I think a lot of founders that I've worked with both at techstars and at a traditional fund like they.
Kevin Kaspar: They're very stressed about fundraising, but they should be stressed about finding the right customer, and you know they should be obsessed with their customers, and really excited about like closing contracts, etc, and getting getting those validating the product market, that the fundraising is actually much easier than working like that, solidifying your customers. In my experience, Neil. I don't know if you have anything to add to that. But that's
Kevin Kaspar: high level, really important. It's very important, at least to me.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I find myself sometimes,
Kevin Kaspar: the word sad and disappointed came to my best. That's too negative. But it's kind of like
Kevin Kaspar: it's unfortunate. Sometimes when I see founders who express frustration about investors not committing.
Kevin Kaspar: because
Kevin Kaspar: for me, I don't know you all, but like it's all on me
Kevin Kaspar: right, either I'm doing the work to get somebody to commit or didn't happen. It's not something that they can or can't do
Kevin Kaspar: or like. I I can't ask them to be different people. They have their own criteria. So am I doing my part to represent my business and the opportunity in the best possible way, so I can get the right people on my cap table.
Kevin Kaspar: Right? So if you have that mindset, then it's all about what inputs can I, you know, buy to this business and make that happen, and how much effort do I need to put in to actually get the right people in the room to understand what I have to say?
Kevin Kaspar: So if you put it on you. It's a very liberating thing, and then you'll have a lot of kind of patience and understanding and empathy for those investors, because they're just trying their best to get a return.
Kevin Kaspar: Simple enough.
Kevin Kaspar: So true. So
Kevin Kaspar: here are some key metrics to highlight.
Kevin Kaspar: I mean, we'll cover many. So there's ways to evaluate your company based on user growth.
Kevin Kaspar: There are ways, you know, for revenue metrics. It's applicable, right? And it's not always applicable. And again, that's okay. There are other ways to showcase. But here are some
Kevin Kaspar: traditional ways that these are questions are going to ask you. These are things that they have in their investment memos. When they do diligence, they write investment memos to present to the partners of their fund. These are all you know, metrics that they're gonna have to you know, have in their memos as they go on to pitch your company to more senior. So again, if you don't have you know a lot of these metrics. You may have others, but you're gonna have to have something for them to be able to pitch it. That makes sense.
Kevin Kaspar: And then, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: for some use metrics. I know.
Kevin Kaspar: That's okay.
Kevin Kaspar: Only Metro, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, something is that we can. We use
Kevin Kaspar: fundraising and investment will drive.
Kevin Kaspar: It's not translated number. They show off your your start. This is.
Kevin Kaspar: it's hard.
Kevin Kaspar: It all depends on what it says about your specific, this. Some of these are relevant to you. Some of these is irrelevant. Exactly right? Yeah, exactly. I mean, I think that also. And you know, it's important to always be honest and truthful right like throughout the process. But these are probably going to be questions that you're going to get asked at some point right? So I think at least knowing them. And, you know, showcasing them. When you feel like, yeah, it's relevant to your company.
Kevin Kaspar: It's you know, it's not one size fits all but these definitely a list of stuff that you need to keep on in the back of your head as you're tracking.
Kevin Kaspar: So we have engagement metrics right. How are customers, users, etc, engaging with your platform in addition to customer acquisition? How much will it cost to get each customer, and how that really reflects the kind of marketing dollars that you're spending in addition to other sort of you know, expenses that you have. I do want to call this out what you have up here. So for the engagement metrics part.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm asking you all to put like, who's anybody been in BC before?
Kevin Kaspar: No, okay, so act like you are.
Kevin Kaspar: Would you be satisfied with those 3 bullets, or is there anything more you'd want to know if you were trying to decide whether to invest.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, like, referral rates or something like a social thing. Okay?
Kevin Kaspar: Sure, yeah. Morgan, how do you know you're actually doing a good job in there by a good engagement. What does that mean? Great point.
Kevin Kaspar: Anyone else?
Kevin Kaspar: I see you. You wanna raise your hand, don't you?
Kevin Kaspar: Maybe like, what's the purpose of the app like, are they actually engaging to the final point? Yeah, that's what I was looking for. So what happens in Vc, at least for me. I've I've been in it for a long time. We always drill in. So yeah, you have engagement. Where? Where is the engagement? Because you have more than one feature, or you have more than one place
Kevin Kaspar: in your system. Where are they spending their time? Where aren't they spending their time? There's an unraveling of engagement that we're looking for. That goes even deeper than this. So these are just like initial bullets
Kevin Kaspar: for you to begin thinking about what to measure and what to track. Yeah, especially during our goal setting. And obviously, each business is gonna have different engagement metrics based on the industry that you're in right, like, you know, and different kpis in general. Like, if you're I don't know a Fintech business, you're gonna have, like maybe a transaction volume that you're tracking right like every business will have different ways to track. But this is super general, for.
Kevin Kaspar: like, you know, week, one kind of overview. But but the Vc judo. Those like we look at this and we go. Okay, how well does this founder actually understand what they're putting up in front of me? It's not just enough to have these numbers. You have to be able to understand how you got to those numbers and what those numbers, even
Kevin Kaspar: right? So there's stories behind each one. Yeah. Well, just on your point, you know. I think it's about something that we asked a lot. That's there's a certain
Kevin Kaspar: when I was secure. But a lot of platforms will have every feature that people are ultimately paying for. And
Kevin Kaspar: something that's helped with engagement is through. How? How regularly are they using that? So to ask, for example, how many posts are they making on different channels? What channel Instagram is it? Facebook? Is it. Linkedin.
Kevin Kaspar: How are they actually using your product and believe it or not? Sometimes the numbers themselves don't even matter what matters is how the founder is describing their understanding of the numbers like they could, they can actually be less impressive.
Kevin Kaspar: But if the founders, showing like a curiosity and an engagement and a deep technical understanding of what's going on and a desire for them to change and understand the levers. That's the kind of thing investors get excited about. Yeah, right? So.
Kevin Kaspar: And I think again, it all just boils back down to like being really obsessed with your customers and super excited about you know how to help them.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay. So again, more early stage traction indicators, because I know some of those, you know, etc, like
Kevin Kaspar: month over month. Revenue may not be extremely relevant right now. But I think it's still very important to start tracking whatever traction indicators you can. Right? And this could be Beta user sign up. This could be any results you have from Mvp testing customer testimonials. Any data that you can get from pilot programs lies.
Kevin Kaspar: Then we can go on to partnership and validation. You go back to the other one. Yeah, I mean, interrupt. So you're going to hear this for me a lot.
Kevin Kaspar: I know Liliana knows what I'm about to say. I am not a fan of the last bullet on this slide.
Kevin Kaspar: No, no, I'm not. I'm not critiquing you. No, I'm just saying that you're gonna hear this from me a lot, especially whenever I hear kind of talk about Lois, and you might guess why I don't like Lois
Kevin Kaspar: non binding. It's Bs to me. It doesn't. It's not real. It's like you start weekends. I got a hundred. Otherwise, like, yeah, you convince a bunch of people to sign a nothing document that means nothing and will lead to nothing like make it real. Give me a real commitment, create some friction. I'd rather you get one or 2 people to say yes than 50 people to say, maybe right? So, George.
Kevin Kaspar: in these gaps
Kevin Kaspar: I hear it all the time I hear founders, too. They're like, Hey, I just need to say that, you know, you'll commit to invest, but like not really like, you know. Just just tell other people that people are interested. So can you just tell me that you're you know it's it's it's so fake, you know. So don't play that game, you can avoid it.
Kevin Kaspar: So other ways to measure attraction are around kind of partnerships. And
Kevin Kaspar: you know, media coverage pilot programs, industry awards right
Kevin Kaspar: continually. Kind of just measuring things that you've achieved product development milestones, right? Whether it's your roadmap, your iteration based on user feedback key features launch, any kind of advancements or innovation on the technical front.
Kevin Kaspar: And then here's some kind of high level tips I'd have if for some companies, you know, companies with very early traction that, you know, might be pre revenue. So
Kevin Kaspar: to focus you know, on that kind of week over week growth. Really kind of highlight, the qualitative feedback, and, you know, kind of demonstrate sort of some demand through kind of pre revenue channels. And you know, really, highlight, your founding team emphasize
Kevin Kaspar: how well you know your market and how deeply you understand your customer and have a very clear plan for achieving sort of new goals.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. Oh, I had a question on the pilots.
Kevin Kaspar: what is the Vc perception of like an unpaid pilot like? So if you say, get to work with a larger company, but
Kevin Kaspar: feel sort of is they're gonna try it out for free.
Kevin Kaspar: is. Yeah. I guess just what are kind of the thoughts on on the pilot. I mean, my initial thought would be well, for how long?
Kevin Kaspar: Okay? Like, how long is it, you know? And and specifically like what? What?
Kevin Kaspar: what like? You know, additional requirements do you have? And they have from your products that they're going to sign on
Kevin Kaspar: for a paid pilot, you know. Is it a 2 week paid 2 week free pilot? Is it a 3 month? Free pilot? And then what are they looking to achieve from your pilot in order for them to sign on. Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: what did you learn? What to find? Success?
Kevin Kaspar: How will you know when you've succeeded, and what will it take for them to actually commit beyond the prepaid, you know? Free pilot to pay? Why are you doing a free pilot right? Why isn't it paid, you know. So there's a lot of different thoughts that we'll have about what that could mean. It largely depends on the context, right? So some businesses have a wedge or a plan to do so. But just showing that you made the decision to offer up a free pilot with intention and with a plan for conversion. Exactly.
Kevin Kaspar: We can.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay. So
Kevin Kaspar: you're tracking all your metrics. You know, you're working really hard to understand your customers. So you know, a lot of times we get questions about, how do I, you know, find the right investors? And who do I really target? So it's very important to ensure alignment when you look at investors. And again, this can vary within the fund as well as the actual fund. So, like some funds, you know, Will.
Kevin Kaspar: Some funds will focus, you know, only on Fentanyl.
Kevin Kaspar: if someone's, you know, will be journalists, so they'll be maybe
Kevin Kaspar: like a consumer person in that fund who you want to target. So it's a
Kevin Kaspar: build out your investor list that you know exactly who you want to talk to. It's not just oh, I want to talk to Mark Andreessen. It's the specific person at the specific fund who, I think could help me. And as you're researching funds, it's also important to look at their portfolio companies, you know. See, you know what kind of spaces that they've operated, in, what kind of deals they've done, what kind of check sizes they've written. A lot of this information is very public.
Kevin Kaspar: and you know, just confirming that they're really investing in 3 C rounds. They're not like a seed fund or an a fund, right? Because then you're just, you know, you're not going to get anywhere with with them. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, that's true. What do you think? Oh, so yeah, I I agree with that. So
Kevin Kaspar: if you have a plan for series a within a timeline right within a few years. Let's say
Kevin Kaspar: I am a huge fan of premeditatively nurturing relationships with key people at firms.
Kevin Kaspar: Slowly, carefully, cautiously, and with intention.
Kevin Kaspar: you do want to be mindful of timing, though, because sometimes founders will prematurely form these relationships, and all the investor will read and know about you is that
Kevin Kaspar: you just keep saying the same thing. They see you every few months, and it's the same update, because you're not at that inflection point where it's worth kind of constantly staying in touch. So you want to time it in a way where you're anticipating continual growth or progress or things worth sharing, so that you stay engaged with them. The worst thing, the only thing worse than timing your engagement, based on need is
Kevin Kaspar: almost over planning the engagement in a way that you don't have a lot to share in those little inputs like those those midpoints I'd be very tactical with. How you do that, too, because
Kevin Kaspar: I think you know, investors also want to invest in founders who are like working on their business all the time and are very heads down like when I was at my old fund, like, if I emailed a company saying, Hey, I like I'd source companies right? Say, Hey, I'm really interested. I'd love to meet like. And if they emailed me back, saying, Hey, we're really heads down working right now, and we're not fundraising. But we're opening around in November. Let's talk. Then I'd be like 10 times more interested.
Kevin Kaspar: Like, Yeah, I, in my opinion, I I not always. But I sometimes prefer a binary approach, and it depends on the company, and it's very like it's not one size fits all, but either fundraising or you're not. And if you're not fundraising, it's totally fine to meet people go out, you know, network like, you know, maybe have a coffee here and there, but you can't make it a very big part of what you do because it's going to take away from your
Kevin Kaspar: current traction. Yeah, the investor is. Gonna say, they're not focused on their business.
Kevin Kaspar: They're so focused on being at all these things and have all these conversations. But what? When are they actually going to do anything with the company? Yeah. So that comes up a lot, Morgan.
Kevin Kaspar: Sometimes I feel like I miss something you're like. Oh, sometimes we mess and seed, and it says that on Sunday, but like, actually, we mostly, I'm just like
Kevin Kaspar: these type of conversations. That's how it goes, or just like talking with their people. The best way to get most accurate one.
Kevin Kaspar: So I will focus on well, one. You all are going to help each other. So each of you are going to build your own investor list. But then you're going to probably build a master one. There's some alums who are here that also have access to certain lists that could save you a lot of time. So they connected to them, too. But what I'll say is, I don't know if you remember what I said yesterday about like quality versus quantity.
Kevin Kaspar: So I'm saying 200 quality interactions.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't mean just pot shots like thrown out there hoping that you get some some hits. It's like, I thought specifically about why these 200 firms or individuals
Kevin Kaspar: would potentially be a good fit to invest in my business and be on my cap table. And each of those interactions and conversations are done with intention. If you do it that way.
Kevin Kaspar: I think you'll have a commitment by the time you hit that number.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. And also to add on that what Brad said yesterday about maybe talking to a portfolio company with someone that you really think there is a good fit. Maybe that also gives more clarity about those type of information that you're looking for.
Kevin Kaspar: So that would be a new approach to it.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. And as you build your target list here, I really recommend categorizing investors as well as like, you know, making a B and C, and to see, you know, who are your kind of top investors that you feel like are 100% of fit, like or other investors who you know you're excited about, but aren't like you. Maybe you know your top choices, and then the C list and
Kevin Kaspar: I'd love to hear what what Neil thinks of this, too. But I've also earned advice in the community like you start with your C's, and then you move up to your eggs. That's my. That's my term. If you Google it, I think I show up on the 1st list 1st page. Anybody make pancakes.
Kevin Kaspar: Go ahead 1st pancake that 1st pancakes. So that's both for sales and for Vcs like, that. 1st person's your sacrificial panic. 1st group. Yeah, I like to screw up first.st
Kevin Kaspar: So get the jitters out right like, get the rust off. You're gonna stumble over your words. You want to talk about the business. Your there's a typo and your pitch deck like there's something wrong, right? Get it out the way. So reach out to the people who you don't really care about screwing up with.
Kevin Kaspar: and then the the ones that you really want. Now, you're like, kind of in shape, right?
Kevin Kaspar: So I was going to say, would you also suggest ranking these based on?
Kevin Kaspar: I've also had conversations with him to say, Look, we're 5 years into
Kevin Kaspar: reinvesting in our existing portfolio. But then
Kevin Kaspar: that goes, I think, directly to Monica's point. Yeah, right. You need to understand the timing of their investments where the company stands when it comes to their the life cycle of their proposal. That being said, if they're 5 years into the fund.
Kevin Kaspar: they should be raising a second fund. Yeah, yeah, right? So they should be in a position where they're trying to identify new deals and opportunities for that next fund. And I'm selling to lps. I want to show that I have a pipeline of good deals to bring the capital into. So if anything, yeah, there's a few more nuances to that funds that are raised like when when a Gp raises the fund, it's public information. So it is on newsletters. But it's like, literally on, like like public archive. So like it's it's this information is
Kevin Kaspar: around and how much they raised.
Kevin Kaspar: They won't disclose their lps, usually, but how much they raise them? Who raised? Who's the Gp, that's easy to find as well. So you can even yeah, sort it. But in or you know, in your outreach, think about oh, this fund, just, you know, raised another fund last year. They're probably actually going
Kevin Kaspar: so here's like pipeline. This is what I recommend to start with. You can add more things as you see fit. So, as you know, I. I've seen this on a Google sheet. I've seen this on an Excel. This is the. This is, in my opinion, the best way to stay really organized around this. Because if you have 200 people like you need a process, you can't just have a Google Doc with bullets.
Kevin Kaspar: And you definitely can't send people Google, Doc, with bullets, either. So it does. It has to be organized. So it's the fund. Name your priority. ABC, right? The investor at the fund. You want to target their email, their specific focus, their stage, their check size where they're located and who can make this intro. This is also very important to stay aware of, like who in your network? You know, has the connection to this investor, and who, you can really ping to, you know, send that formidable and get that warm intro.
Kevin Kaspar: and then track how that intro goes.
Kevin Kaspar: Is it made? Yes, no. If not other person. Get any feedback, etc. And then what stage you're at with that investor, and what feedback they're getting along the way, like if they say No, it's fine, just track it and make sure you, you know, ask for feedback, if possible.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I have a question about timing in terms of like during the year. So in the Uk people are very specific, for example. Oh, it's good to raise for April that period, because that's when the tax year ends. Is there any us? How is that?
Kevin Kaspar: Or is there like a don't? There's some time there's some seasonality. I think, that a lot of people talk about. So, for example, you will see
Kevin Kaspar: slower response rates at certain points right in the midpoint of the summer, when people are taking their final vacations in August, in December, and the holidays, that kind of thing. However.
Kevin Kaspar: I like to say, like, I know, really good deals that get done around those time periods, because at the end of the day. A good deal is a good deal
Kevin Kaspar: as an investor. I'm trying to get good deals done. So if a founder who has a great business and a great opportunity has a little bit of room left on their cap table. I'm gonna find a way to make that happen. So I'll say this you need to be
Kevin Kaspar: strong enough and attractive enough as a business for for you to be able to override some of those seasonal concerns and factors from the market.
Kevin Kaspar: That's my personal opinion. So
Kevin Kaspar: just saying, like a good enough deal gets done any time of the year.
Kevin Kaspar: Generally, if you get a no, it's a good practice to opt to add that a certain to your updates. And
Kevin Kaspar: if
Kevin Kaspar: I guess just the like, the progress updates business updates is that general good etiquette to do, and then, if you do so, what's the next time you can follow up and say, Hey, we've made some progress.
Kevin Kaspar: What do you think
Kevin Kaspar: I
Kevin Kaspar: a set?
Kevin Kaspar: Wait for the next round?
Kevin Kaspar: Maybe so, my answer would be, it depends on the investor, I would say, for most of the ones you're talking about. No.
Kevin Kaspar: but there's a few that you're like, all right. I didn't get you now, but I'm gonna get you soon. You know what I mean, there's a few that you're like. I really do want to prove myself to this person because I want them involved. And even if you don't want their money. You do want their eyes, you want their experience, you want their expertise. I've seen investors change their mind based on the founders response to their number.
Kevin Kaspar: So how you receive the know and how you engage with them thereafter can actually influence opportunities in the future.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: right? Yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean. Think? Yeah, exactly what you said. It's usually doesn't hurt to ask if you had a good relationship with them, you know, and you had a great, you know, experience them. But
Kevin Kaspar: for the most part, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. So I got a question about that, because I actually had advice that I added everybody. And now I've got like 200 people on it. But, like, I really know, like most of them, are not quite by
Kevin Kaspar: conversation with the tech starts coming great like you should call that list
Kevin Kaspar: and only really make it. People really think they're doing it. What's the best way to pull the list? So he's recommending, or do I just started calling based on my end?
Kevin Kaspar: I'm curious to know what the room thinks. What do you all think they should do
Kevin Kaspar: no engagement rates like open rates and stuff, or
Kevin Kaspar: I've got yeah, I've got. I've got all the open and click through rates.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, for for the most part. I mean.
Kevin Kaspar: I have some of that data. But I'm seeing a 60% open rate doesn't mean anything.
Kevin Kaspar: But I don't know if that really means they're really interesting.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't write the back. Take that 200 characters. I write the process. Then you tell the bottom 10
Kevin Kaspar: signed up something like that.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I was. I was gonna say something similar, like, really go through the list again and maybe see, okay, who is really, really up? Someone like Neil said, that I I really want to get that person. I want that person stay in the loop
Kevin Kaspar: and kind of weed out the rest.
Kevin Kaspar: I wanna know who's looking at my stuff like this is a very personal thing to share. This is all the details of my business. Right? So who are you, and what business do you have reading everything about me, and what I'm up to? So make sure that everybody on that list of people that you'd be proud to stay in touch with
Kevin Kaspar: right, and that you want to hear back from, and maybe have an honest communication with each of them about like, Hey, I noticed that you're not particularly engaged or opening my updates.
Kevin Kaspar: All good if you plan to check these later. But I just want to make sure, because I'm probably going to remove people who I'm not seeing engaged with me about this unless I know otherwise. Right? So give them a give them an out. But then very politely remove people that aren't valuable.
Kevin Kaspar: That's what I would do. But it's my hand.
Kevin Kaspar: probably topical question. So I'm wondering when you think about building relationships early with with a person like.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, not a private equity firm, in my opinion, not a private equity firm like the Max you would go is maybe like a series, a investor. And even then it's kind of totally okay to say I'm really heads down. You know, rate like building will be raising a pre seat in the fall, or in whatever in the winter. Happy to chat with you more than
Kevin Kaspar: I. I wouldn't. I wouldn't overextend yourself like you. Really, you really have to limit. The investor calls, in my opinion, unless you're 100% ready, because you can also only make a good 1st impression once, and like you may not get a lot of touch points with investors. Right? So if you can get the meeting, I mean, you gotta come with, like, really good metrics, really good traction. You're really solid.
Kevin Kaspar: So they can at least have a great experience. But yeah, I would say, I would say not a private equity group. I wouldn't say yes. If there's value that you can
Kevin Kaspar: derived from them
Kevin Kaspar: functionally for your business meaning, they're connected to certain people that would be helpful. They have a certain level of expertise that you want to get their eyes on like if there, if there's a meaningful way to engage a professional in some context. That's great. But I agree with Sylvie. Otherwise
Kevin Kaspar: right, it shouldn't be just keeping in touch. It should be. You're interesting. You have this skill set. You have this network. You have this knowledge. I have this business. Can we collaborate from time to time exactly like, you're absolutely yeah. Yeah. It has to be a mutual relationship. I do want to quickly, because I know we're short. Yeah, we're short on time. Let me, we can get to more questions at the end. Let me just quickly talk about these megaphones because we are in the Bay area and everyone's gonna have
Kevin Kaspar: about this. And I've had worked with so many founders who really, you know, their goal was like, I need to get funding from the supporters of the world. That is my goal if I don't get support devastated. And I really believe deeply that this is not a good use of your time like it is not a good use of your time focusing mainly on these Mega funds. There are a lot of funds out there in the Bay area. There are a lot of funds, but in general there are a lot of funds that are
Kevin Kaspar: these, you know, massive, very, you know, marketing heavy firms that can add a lot of value to your company because they have a good kind of sector focus or investors who are really value. Add, they've gotten great references from your network, etc. So
Kevin Kaspar: some of these big funds as well, you know, you may have
Kevin Kaspar: call with them, and it might not go as you want, you may get rejected. It's only going to upset you more, and you have to realize sometimes they only invest in like these celebrity founders. They're 2 ex 2 ex founders, you know, exits, or they're very senior executives from their portfolio companies who they've had relationships with for a long time.
Kevin Kaspar: you know. Sometimes they see thousands of deals a year. They invest in 2 or 3, some only one and some 0. And that's just the way that it is, and we'll talk more about incentives, too. But like some investors, literally make 0 deals a year. And it's not because the funds not like doing well, it's because
Kevin Kaspar: sometimes their incentives are like.
Kevin Kaspar: like, they want to stay in that job, and they don't want a bad track record. And if they're not 100% sure that this company is going to get them promoted. Then they're not gonna they're not going to do anything. They're just gonna sit until they feel like they have more experience. They have a better network.
Kevin Kaspar: and that's that's been my experience. And I'd love to hear yours. But you know, I think at series a. This is a totally different ballpark, and then I think it's totally fine to say I want one of the big players to leave my series a. But I think at the Pre seat especially, you want funds that are, you know, very like Founder focused, and GPS, who really want to help
Kevin Kaspar: ego and vanity. Those are the 2 things that come to mind when I interact with certain founders who obsess over
Kevin Kaspar: getting to Sequoia, or whatever venture firm that has the shock and awe and zazz, and makes you think and seem like you're awesome, and you're destined for success.
Kevin Kaspar: It's a byproduct of making progress and having a good business to be in the room with some of these top tier firms not the other way around. You don't whittle your way in. And then. Oh, now that I'm here, I've got a shot. Your business and its quality is what gives you the opportunity to have those conversations. So I know, and I have dealt with founders that I've invested in, who obsess over getting into these rooms and they get there.
Kevin Kaspar: but then they don't get anything, and they walk out empty hand. And then I have other founders that do what kind of we help teach and say they get into these rooms, and they're taken very seriously. Yeah, I mean, you're not doing these investors any favors like you are giving them a legitimate business that is going to both, you know, in like help, their track record. And also, you know, boost the funds. So you need to come into that from like this is a mutual, you know, relationship and a partnership here.
Kevin Kaspar: Speaking of relationships, I'm sure some of you are familiar with being in one with a a person right? It's not so different. That's the thing like, if you're thirsty, if you're like
Kevin Kaspar: really eager. And all you're trying to do is like, you know, get pitched or like, go on a date with somebody like that's like, not the best energy, right? But if you know yourself, you have confidence, right? You understand your value and your worth.
Kevin Kaspar: And you're coming into it mutually
Kevin Kaspar: like, I know what I'm bringing to the table. I know what you bring to the table. Let's go on a date. Hello! That's a much better interaction. And investors are looking for founders who have that kind of energy and confidence.
Kevin Kaspar: I could like 99% of the emails and interactions and requests that I get are the desperate founders on their hands and knees. Please, sir, can I have some more, you know, like it's like that. And it's like, all right, like
Kevin Kaspar: maybe every now and then you can help someone who's in that situation. But at the end of the day you should just feel really excited about what you're doing with your business, and why it's a good investment opportunity
Kevin Kaspar: exactly. Every investment I made at my last role, especially like this is a more, you know, traditional Vc lens of looking at businesses is that if I don't invest in this company, literally, someone in my network is going to, and they're going to make a lot of money doing so like, that's just honestly the exact way DC, thing you have to leave them with that sort of taste in their mouth. And again, it's again because
Kevin Kaspar: of you have great traction, and you're really solving a real problem. And you've got. You know, you're either on the path product product market or you're there. Just be the one that got away. Yeah, yeah, like. And they have to really feel like they're going to miss out. Okay? So we can talk super briefly about how funds evaluate deals like from the fun side. So
Kevin Kaspar: you know, before 1st call. Honestly, probably around the time that you've gotten a warm introduction. To the investor, maybe they'll say, Hey, great great to meet you. Are you free next week? Can you send me a deck? So you're going to send a deck over
Kevin Kaspar: and then you're gonna have your 1st call. It's going to be general for the most part. A lot of times it's not a partner. So again, I I have met many founders and work with many founders who are very disappointed. But, like the partner isn't coming to the 1st call, it's pretty unusual unless it's small fund for the partner to come to the 1st call.
Kevin Kaspar: It's usually an analyst, it's an associate, it's a principal. It's someone else who works at the fund who supports partner. This is not always a bad thing, like they can be tremendous advocates for your company, and they can get really excited about what you're building, because again back to the incentives. If you really wow them, I mean, they want to get promoted. They want to get a high caliber deal across. They want their portfolio to grow, too.
Kevin Kaspar: So you know, I think with with these folks, you know, definitely ask thoughtful questions about the fund, Ilia, those out a little bit later, but seem really interested. Engaged. The second call often is a little bit more of a comprehensive view. It can kind of clarify any questions from the 1st call. You can kind of dive a little bit deeper on
Kevin Kaspar: business model unit economics or competitive landscape, etc. And sometimes or let's go to the 3rd column, and I'll I'll mention something.
Kevin Kaspar: I was hosting the.
Lilliana Robinson: Sylvia.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: I've I don't want. I don't want you to rush. So I was thinking maybe we should do a part 2 on Tuesday of next week. That way you can just get to whatever you get to here, and we can take our time. What do you think.
Kevin Kaspar: Really good idea. Yeah, yeah, i i i wanted to add one quick thing here, too, which is
Kevin Kaspar: for that second call. Given that some of you all probably experienced this already. What else do you think should be on this list? These are the 4 things that we have as an agenda. But like.
Kevin Kaspar: maybe at the top of the call, what happened? Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, what's been up? It's been a week. It's been a week. It's been a month. Catch me up anything change? What's the deal? So I have a really exciting thing to share about what's been happening and going on. That's awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, on the 1st call, when we do our Rising stars fund. We have a lot of like analysts and associates who help us and the people that we are the least excited about for deals are actually the people that treat those associates with like unkindness or impoliteness when they just want to talk to Neil, and they're disappointed that they're not talking to the decision maker. A lot of my founders in tech stars will come back to me and say, they just keep putting me on with analysts like, it's so annoying. How do I talk to the principal?
Lilliana Robinson: How you treat that person's team like the decision makers team matters. It shows who you are as a person. So don't neglect that or become frustrated that you're not talking to the final decision, maker or partner. They're actually evaluating you by how you treat their team. So it's kind of like a secret behind the scenes. Thing.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I 1st started working adventure when I was 19, and I was like an analyst intern. But I I became an analyst. So I was full time, year round at this venture, firm while in college, and
Kevin Kaspar: it was so crazy because
Kevin Kaspar: I was the 1st line of defense for the deals coming through. So you found it for emailing this venture firm. And my job was to take in those messages to then bubble up to the partners on the Monday morning meeting that I was at.
Kevin Kaspar: so I had more power than I felt like I should have, but I had it, and if there were ever a founder who either rude or disrespectful, or didn't represent themselves well to me. It mattered to the partners at the firm that I had that feedback. So just keep that in mind how you treat anyone's how you treat everyone at a firm. Absolutely
Kevin Kaspar: so. Just kind of wrapping up a lot of times. The 3rd call will be where the partner jumps in
Kevin Kaspar: and this is again such a rough draft. It's dependent on each fund, right? But you know, you can have a larger meeting, maybe the partner, in addition to Principal. In addition to that kind of initial analyst you 1st spoke to
Kevin Kaspar: again. This is gonna be really, this one's gonna be the most heavy, I'd say on traction. And also just like high level, the team dynamics like, why are you guys the team, you know, it's it's almost as if the analyst or the kind of more junior investor has like, come with all your traction metrics, all your kind of data, all the financial stuff, and the partners kind of taking almost like a vibe check, and also just trying to like, really understand exactly what you're building.
Kevin Kaspar: So they have some. They have some like background, I think, and like on your business usually. But also where you're going. I think that's really important, like, how are we going to be a billion dollar business? Are you going to help us return the spot like it's not just.
Kevin Kaspar: We have good customer acquisition costs like, where? Where's this going to go? And you know the markets? If you're targeting a small market now, why and how are you going to expand that right? Like? It's a lot about kind of like these more high, level thoughts. And and
Kevin Kaspar: sometimes I want to mention to either the second call or the 3rd call, or maybe a different call. There might also be a product that we walk through. So it really just depends who's going to do this, and whether it's on on the call live, or you're going to have to schedule something else. At this point it becomes a game.
Kevin Kaspar: So think about it on their end. There's someone who's trying to champion your company
Kevin Kaspar: internally.
Kevin Kaspar: and they have to do a lot of work to make not only you look good, but themselves look good as a champion of your deal, so the easier you can make it on them to have strong answers to the questions they're gonna get people at their firm about your business the better.
Kevin Kaspar: So make their life easy by empowering them with the information so that they can advocate on your behalf
Kevin Kaspar: case in point. Sylvia, Liliana, and myself did that for all y'all right. So we've been through a round of this, and you all do a good job like you. You wouldn't be here if you didn't already do a good job at this, but there's a new level of it for each of the firms that you end up having engagement with
Kevin Kaspar: so true. Yeah, definitely, and yeah, I think it's just so important again, how you kind of treat people throughout the entire process.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, so the diligence process.
Lilliana Robinson: Sylvia sorry, or has a question. He has his hand.
Kevin Kaspar: Please.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Hey? About about the point that Neil made. I wonder like I I wondered about this myself for a long time. But
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: does it help that this, the the analyst people, or the 1st line of defense at any investment firm, does it help that they've scouted us instead of us going to them, because we've been in a few situations in the company where, you know they have approached us, and we just told them that we're like, we're not actively searching for, you know, Vcs or investments, or we're not ringing doors yet.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: And that seemed to have a positive impact. So in the light of this. I really wonder what you guys think about, you know. Maybe instead of trying to knock on many doors being in a position of reserve. And just, you know, if you find us, then this is a really good deal like, is is this feasible in a way.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm very happy staying single, but we can get coffee.
Kevin Kaspar: There's a there's energy about having like the
Kevin Kaspar: like the the pull versus the push. I think David talked about this when he welcomed you. All right. Pull versus push. That's exactly right. The best deals that get done at venture firms in my experience I've only worked at 4 firms in addition to tech stars.
Kevin Kaspar: are the ones where on the Monday morning meeting we have with the partners. The partner comes into the room and goes, hey, I need to get in the room with Spot Hero, who can get me a conversation with their CEO,
Kevin Kaspar: like I. I've already heard people talking to them, but I want to make sure that we don't miss out on that deal.
Kevin Kaspar: So it's the. It's the companies and the founders and the deals where, like Jlo mentioned it yesterday, there's people finally like coming to her because she's had such a reputation and name for herself now, being so well networked and working so hard on her business that now investors are seeking her out to have conversations. If you're that kind of founder. Those are the deals that get done the fastest with the most favorable terms of the founder, and end up being the strongest and most positive relationships that I've ever heard.
Kevin Kaspar: Deals can still get done otherwise. Right? You can put yourself out there in good deals. But if you can build the kind of experience, culture, and more about yourself and your business, where people are starting to hear about you. And then, now they're coming to you. You're gold.
Kevin Kaspar: so I'll share more about my experience with that. Because I actually did that myself. On Saturday.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. And I think a lot of these analysts. I mean. That's literally their job. Like when I said, they're salespeople, they are. They scout through. They're hunting. They're like on tons of lists. They're on linkedin. They're you know, looking at news. They're looking at this looking that so it's definitely a good sign if someone's, you know, reaching out to you. But at the same time I, personally wouldn't put like all my eggs in that basket to say I'm not going to talk to anybody like they want to call me they can.
Kevin Kaspar: I think you. I think it's you know it has to be a combination because you can't assume all analysts are that good at their jobs like they may have missed. You know, some companies here and there. Yeah, do you guys actually have a segment talking about creating Fomo and like cause like back in the day
Kevin Kaspar: you'd want to get into tech grudge stuff like that is that I mean, but how you guys gonna talk about how to create that
Kevin Kaspar: I'm I'm just gonna talk about it every day. I I don't have anything in particular other than everything I think you should do in this program. But this program is my representation of instilling Fomo based on like. If you you trust my process, then I think that kind of sets you up in that direction. I'll make my last point, because I know we're almost at time so. But the last one I wanted to address is
Kevin Kaspar: the bootstrapping thing. So the point that we were just making is connected to this same idea, which is
Kevin Kaspar: default alive and default, not in need of outside capital.
Kevin Kaspar: If you are in that state.
Kevin Kaspar: I largely prefer it. Even if that's not your ideal state meaning you can build a better business with capital. You need to have a strategy in place to exist with or without someone else controlling your ability to exist.
Kevin Kaspar: That's just my fundamental philosophy.
Kevin Kaspar: That may not be true for all of it.
Kevin Kaspar: All of you may not be able to generate revenue with your models. I know that, and that's okay. But if it's possible to come up with a strategy where you could keep your business afloat, even if it's doing weird stuff consulting outside work, whatever it takes. But you have a strategy in place to stay alive.
Kevin Kaspar: That gives you strength to walk away from any deal, especially a bad one. I've seen founders make really horrible mistakes because they're desperate. There's no other outlook for them other than having an investor. Give them money, so they get taken advantage of. The sharks come out when it's clear that your business is fledgling, but you're a good founder, and you have a good business, and they're just gonna starve you out until they could take full advantage of the fact that you're desperate for capital.
Kevin Kaspar: You don't want to be in that position, because then, 5 or 10 years later, when you're successful and you get that exit check. You're like.
Kevin Kaspar: where's my money?
Kevin Kaspar: But someone else got it. So I never want you all to be in that situation. I've seen that happen before
Kevin Kaspar: cool. Yeah, I mean, no, we're basically at time. Guys, honestly. And Liliana, yeah, let's definitely schedule another session. Maybe we can go through the rest, we can go into due diligence and the rest of the presentation also. Just get to a lot of the questions that were on the board. And you know, as you guys know, like we're here, we're here to continually answer your questions and help you. And I know it's confusing. But it's a lot of information today, so don't feel overwhelmed. Try not to, at least. And
Kevin Kaspar: you know, it's definitely a process, though, so it's a good start.
Lilliana Robinson: It's weird.
Lilliana Robinson: You did a great job, Sylvia. I'm glad that we're not going to rush through it. I've already scheduled part 2 for 10 Am. On Tuesday, so we'll just pick up right where we left off.
Lilliana Robinson: Sylvia will just take notes of the questions that you asked, and we'll just make sure that we get through it all. Cause this is great content. I mean, it's a great sign when there's so much engagement that we have to split your workshop, Sylvia. So
Lilliana Robinson: So we are going straight into another thing.
Lilliana Robinson: But before we stop the recording something else I wanted to close with about Sylvia's workshop is.
Lilliana Robinson: I've come up with this like motto that I've told some of the founders is, you're not building your business to fundraise like a lot of people are like, Oh, I just need to get this traction so I can start my round. You're you're fundraising to get back to building your business, so like the primary goal is building your business, and the fundraising is just a side quest. You have to go on to
Lilliana Robinson: give you more ability to keep building your business. So just try and think about that. Think about is is that the way I'm really thinking about this? Am I just trying to get to the point that I can launch my round because I'm hungry for money. That's not the way that we should be thinking about it. And then the other way. The other thing that Sylvia kept saying was the term when you're ready.
Lilliana Robinson: So she kept saying, I'll introduce you to all my contacts. When you're ready I'll review your pitch deck when you're ready, and we're gonna define what when you're ready means. So we we're not going to get into it in the these sessions. But we're gonna post on base camp, her entire like fundraiser readiness protocol. And so if you follow the protocol, it will unlock certain things. I just wanna make it very clear. So people don't bombard Sylvia after this.
Lilliana Robinson: It's not an open door here. We're going to start making intros today, there are things that we need from you in order for her to help you. So it's a 2 way street. And it's really just so that we can get the highest success for you guys like, she said. You only get one chance to make a 1st impression.
Lilliana Robinson: Did you want to add to that, Sylvia?
Kevin Kaspar: That's great. Thank you for info.
Kevin Kaspar: Liliana. Can we give them a 5 min? Break.
Lilliana Robinson: Absolutely. Let's go do that. I'll stop the recording. We'll be back here at 11 0. 6.